---
layout: post
title: Random Musings
tags: Safety
categories: C++
---

## Who uses C++?

If the **military** doesn't trust C++ due to safety concerns, then why would anybody build **safety critical** systems using C++?
The answer is intriguing. You see, **Safety** is never taught in undergrad or typical grad universities, instead the Computer Science field thrives on
"new" *paradigms*, *idioms* and other "lingos" and languages. Every year or two you hear new "features" in existing languages and new languages popping up.

So, what the universities churn out are **Computer Science** grads who know the latest and greatest features offered by the so-called "new" languages.
Such knowledge is good for typical **IT** companies, those that develop **software** for finance, websites, apps, and server-side components, back-end components, graphics, game-development, scientific computation etc. (i.e. non-critical systems)

However some of these grads, unfortunately end up getting hired to build embedded systems. What can go wrong? They known atleast how to develop better code or so it is perceived.
Well, this perception is what leads to proliferation of unsuitable software methodologies being applied to simple tasks.

For ex:
When you see someone employ object-oriented paradigm to access hardware registers, you know its a lost cause to even give advice.
Similarly, when you see someone employ lambdas to, I don't know, show-off their latest skills, at every mundane piece of software, you know, he/she has no grounding in product development.
I see so many situations where such software is being peddled, and taken by management as a sign of **"modernism"**, that I wonder, how can they ever convince the customer that their product is **safe**?

But then we see how easy it is to sell **snake-oil** packaged in a "modern" looking shiny bottle, with a hefty price tag, that ordinary people are eager to lap it up.
You know, what happens when they apply their modern snake-oil, they get burned, some even loose their limbs and life and cause damage to public infrastructure.

And then you wonder, how did they even manage to sell such snake-oil in the first place. What do you think?
Do you really think the situation is any different at that level of decision making? I tell you its not.

**If there is no smoke, there is no fire!** That's what passes for Safety Certifications these days!

Given that this sitation is rampant in the industry, you realize that things will never change.
So the cycle continues and self-perpetuates, leading to spectacular unicorns, with unrealistic valuations, which stumble at the first minor hurdle they encounter.
Then ordinary folks wonder, hey what happened, he/she promised me fully autonomous self-driving this year!

What investors don't realize is that these unicorns learnt their lessons the hard-way on your dime, while you were left holding the bag.

All that glitters is not gold!
