---
layout: post
title: To C, or not to C.
tags: OOP
categories: C++
---

## To C, or not to C. that is the question.


Is there really a choice? How to answer this age old question when dealing with embedded systems design? And what are the options?
I am going to share my experience that I have gathered working at many companies, big and small.

This simple sounding question is really not that simple to answer.
There are quite a few parameters that need to be understood, and the implications are far-reaching. 
I will begin by asking questions, about the parameters, to elicit an answer.

### 1. What is an embedded system?

Depending on who you ask this question, you will get different answers, and they all will be correct in their own sense.

For ex: 

If you ask a Google engineer working on Android Smartphones, she/he will say, their platform is an embedded system. It is battery operated, it has a LCD screen, a few switches, a few sensors, interface ports, GPIOs, I2C, SPI etc. 

If you ask a Google engineer working on Nest project, she/he will say, their platform too is an embedded system. 

What about Tesla engineer? It too has a battery, a motor, sensors, cameras, etc. It too is an embedded system. Essentially a glorified toy car, which eats a lot of batteries.

What about the engineer making those small low-power IoT gadgets?

They all consider their platforms "embedded systems". But if you look at their firmware/software stack, it will be completely different in each case.
You will find either Linux, RTOS or bare-metal for OS. You will find either C or C++, Python, Java (Android), JavaScript, even Rust! as languages used on these platforms. From device-driver code to application code to web-scripting.

### 2. What about power requirements?

This question seldomly crosses most of the firmware/software developers before they embark on their grand adventures in software land.
This question is of paramount importance to any product that hopes to capture markets. This question is the decider whether your company is going to make-it or break-it. 

For ex: 300 miles per charge! why not 600 miles?

If your firmware/software team hasn't thought about this at the get-go, you will discover this the hard way.
This question provides you with clues, what firmware/software language / paradigm you will want to pursue, for your product design.

### 3. What about timing requirements?

Here again its the same sad story. The above question and this separates the wheat from the chaff. You know who you are dealing with.

"Embedded Systems" straddles both sides of engineering majors i.e. CS & EE. Each one has its strengths and weaknesses.

This brings us to the last question.

### 4. Well then, what's common between these two types of grads, which will allow them to work on embedded systems? 

This is the final question which most of the folks in Silicon Valley miss, when they hire for positions in embedded systems. 

You see, each product, as we saw in question 1, is different. If your company is developing "embedded systems" products which have a specific role to perform, then does it make sense to build a platform which applies to a general-purpose desktop computer? And if you are developing an "embedded systems" product which is general-purpose in usage, then does it make sense to build a platform which is resource constrained?

Ofcourse not! So, understanding your product requirements as posed by the first 3 questions, should allow you to determine who to hire and correspondingly answer whether "to C, or not to see".

Not understanding this fundamental, is surely a path to ruin, as amply seen by the situation unfolding in the recent layoffs. 

Fundamentals matter. Don't go with the hype of buzz-words and the plethora of so-called modern programming languages. Each is suited for a specific purpose, and if you don't understanding its purpose, you are on shaky ground.

Its that simple, really! 
Live long and prosper.
